US President Joe Biden has urged
Americans to support tens of billions of
dollars in funding for Israel and
Ukraine saying they were fighting for
democracy in a rare speech from the
White House's Oval Office he stressed
that backing both was vital for US
National Security completely annihilated
Biden said the world was looking to
America for leadership and that the US
couldn't afford to abandon its allies
Now American leadership is what holds
the world together American Alliance is
what keep us America safe American
values are what make us a partner that
other nations want to work with to put
all that at risk if we walk away from
Ukraine if we turn our backs on Israel
it's just not worth it that's why
tomorrow I'm going to send to Congress
an urgent budget request to fund
America's national security needs to
support our critical Partners including
Israel and
Ukraine is a smart investment that's
going to pay dividends for American
Security for
Generations help us keep American troops
out of Harm's Way help us build a world
that is safer more peaceful more
prosperous for our children and
grandchildren spring in DW's William
glucoft here William an unusual step for
Biden delivering an address from the
Oval
Office it is unusual I'm trying to
remember a time when the a a US
president gave a major Prime Time
National address about something
on far away especially a war that the US
actually isn't officially directly
involved in right no boots on the ground
no American lives at risk but this
actually kind of signals a shift uh in
in what US power means in the world
these days right it's not so much
military power anymore of course the
United States still has a massive
military outspends and out arms itself
more than any other country in the world
um but American power these days is
money is it the financial system its
ability to back its allies with huge
amounts of financial support and that's
kind of what this speech is now so we're
seeing the shift actually from American
military power to American Financial and
and and money power and uh it its
support for sort of wars in its
interests even though it's not directly
involved Talking Money Biden has said he
will request more funding billions for
both Ukraine and Israel what are the
chances of that funding getting
Congressional approval
William well famous last word and I'll
never make predictions live on air about
what may or may not happen in politics
specifically us politics given what's
going on right now that said I'm sure at
the end of the day something will pass
there is still bipartisan support for
Ukraine although it is waning a bit and
there is strong strong strong uh
unwavering decades long support uh on
both sides of the aisle for Israel so
given that something will happen but
what is it going to take to get there
how much it's going to be what cons
sessions might have to be made in terms
of security on the border with Mexico
other Republican uh pet projects so to
speak that's going to be the big
question those negotiations uh and of
course Congress right now is paralyzed
can't actually give the money that Biden
wants even if they wanted to because
there's of course no speaker in the
house the Congress is completely bogged
down in its own internal uh mess trying
to get leadership going so that they can
move forward on a legislative agenda so
it's going to take a while remember mid
November is when the money the current
money Runs Out could see another
government shut
down the US president is also urging
Israel not to be in his words blinded by
rage uh is that Biden asking Israel to
show restraint in its looming ground
offensive in the Gaza Strip
William it certainly sounds like that
right Biden is walking a fine line
saying of course Israel has the right to
defend itself of course it has the right
to respond to hamas's attack but there
is still international law to comply
with there is still a a horrible
situation in Gaza that Israel is largely
responsible for in terms of the
humanitarian side of things um and he
did make note about America's own 911
experience the major mistakes that the
US made uh in terms of its policy
decisions and undermining its own values
when it comes to torture and the kinds
of surveillance that it it employed
after uh in what it saw as its security
needs uh so it's trying to caution
Israel don't do what we did um try to
make smarter decisions think cooly and
rationally even in the
incredibly tragic time for them William
thanks for your analysis that was DW's
William
glucoft